# Arduino-Robotic-Arm-with-Smarphone-Control


In this project with the help of Arduino UNO R3 I made a Robotic Arm with Smartphone Control. The arm has 5 degrees of freedom. For the first 3 axis, the waist, the shoulder and the elbow, I used the MG996R servos, and for the other 2 axis, the wrist roll and wrist pitch, as well as the gripper I used the smaller SG90 micro servos. Using the sliders in the app we can manually control the movement of each servo or axis of the robot arm. Also using the “Save” button we can record each position or step and then the robot arm can automatically run and repeat these steps. With the same button we can pause the automatic operation as well as reset or delete all steps so that we can record new ones. The operation and communication of the Arm through the Smartphone is done via HC-05 Bluetooth Module. The Bluetooth module connects the arm and the smartphone and all the command are given through Smartphone via Bluetooth Module.
I made the app using the MIT App Inventor online application. At the top we have two buttons for connecting the smartphone to the HC-05 Bluetooth module. Then on the left side we have an image of the robot arm, and on the right side we have the six slider for controlling the servos and one slider for the speed control. Each slider have different initial, minimum and maximum value that suits the robot arm joints. At the bottom of the app, we have three button, SAVE, RUN and RESET through which we can program the robot arm to run automatically.
